h1. Buck up -- Globalize.  Little Translator makes it easy.

h2. Overview

Little Translator is a plugin and a service that helps you manage and translate your application's localized strings.

h2. Details

h3. Getting Started

In an initializer, say maybe _little_translator.rb_

<pre>
<code>
LittleTranslator.configure do |config|
  config.api_key = 'abc123'
  config.api_secret = 'xyz098'
end
</code>
</pre>

h3. Create some strings

<pre>
<code>
mkdir -p app/locales/en-US
cat > app/locales/en-US/hello.yml
welcome: Welcome
teaser: Sign in for the good stuff!
num_photos:
  one: 1 photo
  other: {{count}} photos
have_any: Do you have any {{items}}, "dude"?
</code>
</pre>

h3. Use them in a view

_t_ and _pt_ helpers translate and html-escape

<pre>
<code>
<%=t "hello.welcome" %>
<%=pt "hello.num_photos", 5 %>
<%=t "hello.have_any", :items => "<i>beans</i>" %>
</code>
</pre>

produces:

<pre>
<code>
Welcome
5 photos
Do you have any <i>beans</i>, &quot;dude&quot;?
</code>
</pre>

h3. Use them elsewhere

<pre>
<code>
:"hello.welcome".t                     # => "Welcome"
:"hello.num_photos".pt(5)              # => "5 photos"
:"hello.have_any".t(:items => "beans") # => "Do you have any beans, "dude"?"
</code>
</pre>

or plain old strings, if you prefer

<pre>
<code>
"hello.welcome".t                     # => "Welcome"
"hello.num_photos".pt(5)              # => "5 photos"
"hello.have_any".t(:items => "beans") # => "Do you have any beans, "dude"?"
</code>
</pre>

h2. LittleTranslator Magic

h3. Sync your translations

<pre>
<code>
rake translations:sync
</code>
</pre>

h3. Visit the website

http://www.littletranslator.com/

Once there you can add desired locales, create accounts for translators, even translate your own strings.

h3. Sync again

<pre>
<code>
rake translations:sync
</code>
</pre>

<hr>

Copyright (c) 2008 Little Foundry, released under the MIT license
